[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The biggest question on
everyone's mind for thousands
of years, where did
the gods come from?
It seems that for
years we've been
looking in the wrong place.
If you listen to
the oldest cultures,
they describe how a
long, long time ago, they
lived alongside a
civilization of gods.
And they were said to
be incredible navigators
and astronomers and
magicians, real people
rather than imaginary beings.
And direct contact with them
was a regular part of life.
They often describe them as
human-like but not quite human.
And although these unusual
people lived on Earth,
their point of origin,
their homeland,
was said to be elsewhere, a
very specific place in the sky.
And whether you live in
the northern or southern
hemisphere, there's one
enigmatic constellation
that dominates the
sky, and that is Orion.
They even go so far
as to claim that Orion
was the origin of
civilization itself.
Now, that's what I call
a radical departure
from the history
we've been taught.
But the big question is,
what led our predecessors
to reach this conclusion?
The Bolivian
altiplano, it's filled
with oddities and
that one of them
is the unsettling
question of Aymara,
a language that some
experts consider
to be the oldest in the world.
And the computer scientist
by the name of Iv치n Guzm치n de
Rojas demonstrated how Aymara
is both skillfully designed
and artificial,
particularly its syntax,
which after careful analysis,
was found to be rigidly
structured and ambiguous.
And unlike standard language,
which evolves organically
over many thousands
of years, Aymara
appears to have been created.
And Rojas proved how this
ancient Andean tongue
can be written concisely in
the type of algebraic shorthand
that a computer can understand.
In other words, I
Aymara is an algorithm
with the ability to translate
from one language to another.
It's a kind of bridge
language, whereby
the language of an
original document
can be translated
into Aymara and then
into any number of languages.
But who on Earth had
the intellectual ability
to design a complete language
from scratch thousands of years
ago and in one of the most
remote regions of the world?
To answer this, we need
to look at the Aymara
people themselves.
And they are one of
the oldest on Earth.
And even so, they
are the progeny
of an even older culture, the
Bukidnon, whose tribespeople
still speak about their
homeland in the Pacific Ocean,
an island called Lapukije, which
sank following a global flood.
And linking these two tribes
are another ancient people
of the Andes, the
Uru of Lake Titicaca.
Now the Uru are descendants
of the earliest inhabitants
of the Andes.
And fewer than 5,000
people exist today.
And if you asked them
where they come from,
they point to the sky.
From Orion.
It's quite possible that
this tribal memory derives
from a group of
traveling gods called
the Urukehu, who used to sail
between New Zealand, Easter
Island, and the massive
islands on the way
to South America
called Kainga Nui Nui.
And it has since vanished
beneath the waves.
No written information survives
about the Urukehu, however,
their existence and
exploits are immortalized
in the oral tradition of
another ancient people,
the Waitaha of New Zealand.
The Waitaha established
a physical contact
with the Urukehu
back in the days
when the tribe lived on Easter
Island, which they describe not
as a single island as it is
today but as a group of islands
and lands.
And this alone gives
us a marker in time,
because it accurately depicts
the geology of the region
before the catastrophic rise
in sea level 11,000 years ago.
A fruitful relationship
was established
between Waitaha and Urukehu
because the knowledge that
was imparted let the Waitaha
establish its own Three
Houses of Wisdom,
each of which was
named for a star in
the Belt of Orion.
And they remain so
to this very day.
And this is how the elder
grandmothers of the Waitaha
actually describe
that relationship,
and I quote, "the
School of the Canoe
is the name given by
our ancient ancestors
to Net of the World, Orion.
The name is also given to
the founders of Waitaha.
Many of our families
and groups descend
from these original elder
voyaging ancestors."
These three founding groups are
the ancient people of Waitaha.
It is these families who gave
the sacred social pattern
to join and become as one
nation that would live happily
in peace and plenty in the
lands and outer islands
of Easter Island.
And each of the three
Waitaha family groups
then took on the name of a
star in the Belt of Orion.
There is Kurawaka, which
is the star Mintaka.
And that was composed
of leaders, thinkers,
and planners.
Then there was Rakaiwaka,
which is the star Alnilam.
And these were the
investigators and researchers
and contractors.
And finally, Pukauwaka,
which is the star Alnitak.
They were the knowledge keepers
and dreamers of the nation.
Contact with the
Urukehu took the form
of regular visitations,
which considerably expanded
the knowledge base of
the tribe concerning
the mechanics of nature
and the universe,
not to mention social
and moral codes
and other valuable information
for the establishment
of a healthy coexistence
between people and planet.
And to quote the Waitaha again,
"in all the ancient teachings,
our teachers and healers
had direct communication
with our ancient learned
ancestors, who came to us
in the old world
villages and helped
in the development of our
cultural and traditional
knowledge."
But as time went on,
the Urukehu ceased
to appear in physical
form, preferring instead
to communicate through the
wisdom keeper of the tribe.
And to quote the
Waitaha once more,
"the elder seers of Waitaha
say they remained in contact
with the Urukehu
within the spirit
houses of the stars of Orion's
Belt, which they considered
to be both doorways to the
spirit world and access points
to the Waitaha's
extended family.
So in a manner of
speaking, Orion
was considered a place that was
accessed physically as well as
spiritually.
After visiting Easter
Island, the Urukehu
would sail to New Zealand.
Their domain was
[NON-ENGLISH],, the sacred nest.
And it's a landscape
temple comprised
of three sites made of limestone
monoliths, a number of which
were once shaped by human hands.
And two of them
function as markers
of celestial objects
and thus provide likely
dates when the Urukehu were
present in these highlands.
And one monolith is
specifically referred to
as the calendar stone.
And it marks the first
ascension of Orion's Belt
above the distant mountain range
on the spring equinox in BC.
One would need to wait
another 2,000 years
before the entire constellation
appeared for the first time
in 10,400 BC.
And at the same moment,
across the valley,
the main monument
marks the rising
of the Urukehu's other prominent
constellation, the Southern
Cross.
Oddly enough, the same
two constellations
were of equal importance to the
gods and people of the Andes,
where they are called the
Great Cross and Small Cross
and accepted as twin
gateways between worlds.
To the North of New Zealand
lies the island of Tonga.
The name in early Polynesian
means something highly prized.
And long ago on
this island, Orion
was marked with large earthen
mounds across a wide area.
And most of them are long since
eroded, but to the east stands
one oversized
megalithic structure
called Ha'amonga a Maui.
And it resembles
half an H. It is
said to reference the rising of
Orion's Belt, which islanders
called Tolowa, a
celestial gateway
into the world of the gods.
Well, if so, then this megalith
forms the terrestrial portion
of that portal.
The monument itself
is dedicated to Maui,
a God who sailed the Pacific and
rebooted civilization on land
that became islands
after sea levels
rose dramatically
following the flood.
And Maui was also a
grandson of the Urukehu,
who as we have already
know were intimately
associated with Orion.
Well, further to the
north, Orion makes its mark
in the traditions of Japan.
An ever-present feature
of the Japanese landscape
is the Torii Arch.
It defines the passage
from this world
into the sacred
abode of the gods.
And it has been suggested
that the shape represents
the lower portion of Orion,
with the crossbar as the belt.
And the doorway
itself marks the area
occupied in the
constellation itself
by the M42 nebula, which many
ancient cultures describe
as the source of creation.
This focus on Orion as a
point of origin and fertility
led to an association
between the constellation
and agriculture,
specifically the cultivation
of that staple
ingredients, rice.
And planting commenced on the
spring equinox with a ritual
purification during
the setting of Orion,
and it concluded with the
harvest upon its rising
on the autumn equinox.
Now, this ritual,
with its intention
of creating harmony and an
ideal sustainable world,
was governed by
protective deities who
were honored the moment Orion's
Belt reached its highest
point in the sky.
At this very
moment, the ancestor
gods, having offered their
knowledge of crop domestication
to humanity return
to their world.
Essentially, the ritual
commemorated a relationship
between divine knowledge and
its practical application
on Earth, whereby
its inhabitants
could lead a balanced life.
In Japan, the three
belt stars are
defined in three principal
prehistoric gods,
the Sumiyoshi.
And the position
of their temples
across southwestern
Japan are highly
suggestive of the
alignment of the stars.
These gods are also
singularly associated
with the ocean and seafaring,
much like the Urukehu gods.
And like the Waitaha
of New Zealand,
the Japanese
practitioners of Shinto
also equate the three
belt stars with the three
great original teachers
of this ancient religion.
Orion is an icon of
cultural values, which
are themselves rooted in the
teachings of the founding gods
of Japan over 10,000 years ago.
And to cement this relationship,
the Japanese design
the tsuzumi, a double-ended
hand drum whose design
mirrors the shape of
Orion, with the cord used
to bind the strings in the
middle marking its belt.
They're still used to open
and close religious ceremonies
to this very day.
[BELL RINGING]
The pursuits of the Urukehu and
their association with Orion,
even their physical
characteristics
as tall, light-skinned,
red-haired gods,
matches another group of
unusually advanced people
who arrived in Egypt shortly
after the partial destruction
of their island's
domain 12,000 years ago.
And in this part of the
world, they went by the title
Aku Shemsu Hor, which means
shining ones, followers
of Horus.
And surprisingly, there
is another curious overlap
between these two
distant people.
The Urukehu refer to
Orion as the sacred nest.
And in the Waitaha tradition,
this was bestowed as a title
to the female flood
hero, Hotu Matu'a.
And she was given the
title Net of the World
for her ability to map
the rearranged lands
throughout the Pacific,
most of which of course, had
been transformed into islands.
And yet, the same
story is applied
to the followers of
Horus, who are depicted
on the walls of
the Temple of Edfu
and whose exploits are
recorded in the building texts.
The followers of Horus too
were remapping the seas
after the flood.
And in one panel, we
see a group of gods
called the Crew of the
Falcon on a boat that
uses a net for a sail.
So it's the same symbol.
So there are many
resemblances between these two
groups of gods.
And I believe they
may have all belonged
to the same fraternity.
One of the best-known
gods of Egypt, of course,
is Osiris, one of
the original gods who
lived in the prehistoric age
and quite likely not in Egypt
at all, but a far-away
island which is referred
to by three interlinked names.
One is Taneta, the
Land of the Gods.
Then there's [NON-ENGLISH],,
The Island of Ancestors
and possibly a reference to Lake
Titicaca and its island temple
of Tiwanaku.
And there was a third
called the Island of Fire.
Now, Osiris was an initiate who
possessed the ability to travel
to the other world and back.
And in one of the
traditions, he takes
to his astral boat and
journeys along the Milky Way,
disembarking at a gate called
Sahu, the Egyptian word
for Orion.
Osiris specifically
aims for Orion's Belt.
And at this point, the godman
acquires Sahu as a nickname
and then takes on the
shape of the constellation
as it appears to the eye,
as a man with his leg long
and his stride extended.
The oldest Egyptian
traditions are very specific
about the physical link
having once existed
between our world and Orion,
with the belt stars serving
a kind of portal into
the domain of the gods.
And the connection
between the two
fostered the advent
of gods on Earth
and eventually led to the
development of human culture.
And the texts even describe
how on occasion the gods
would allow a human
to visit their abode.
And this lucky individual gained
access to specialized knowledge
and returned enlightened,
with raised intellectual
and spiritual capacity
that placed them on par
with the gods themselves.
It's not a bad reason
to go astral traveling
for a day or two, isn't it?
The vessel that took
you to this domain
wasn't always a solar boat.
The pyramid texts describe
the ascent of the individual
into the abode of gods by
way of a metal throne made
of a substance called bjA.
Now frustratingly,
no description
survives to tell us the
nature of this unusual metal.
Only a description
of its function
remains, which describes
this throne as,
and I quote, "a ladder for
you to ascend to the sky."
Most temples in Egypt
stand upon the foundations
of earlier structures
that date back
to the time of the arrival
of the followers of Horus.
And not surprisingly
they too reference
Orion in the era when they
were originally built.
So the entrance to the
Temple of Edfu, for example,
matches Orion at its
mid-heaven position
on the winter
solstice of 10,500 BC.
Another is a small chapel
just beyond the complex
of Medinet Habu and dedicated
to the creator god Amun.
And few people pay much
attention to this building
because it is visually
inferior to the grandiose site
next door.
But it is of supreme importance,
because beneath its foundation
lies one of the original
mounds said to be the burial
site of eight primordial gods.
And an important clue
to its remote age
lies in its difference
of alignment
with the adjacent sites, because
this temple is referencing
a very different horizon.
And indeed, it does match the
rising of Orion on the winter
solstice in 8,000 BC.
Just like in Tonga,
the followers of Horus
also built a mirror
image of Orion in Egypt.
The Giza Plateau represents
the terrestrial dwelling place
of Osiris.
So not surprisingly,
the three main pyramids
form an umbilical link
with Orion's Belt.
And they mirror its
appearance in the night
sky across the Nile on the
spring equinox of 10,400 BC.
Coincidentally, the same date
memorialized by the Urukehu
in their landscape
temple in New Zealand.
[CHIMES]
[DRUMS]
The god that traverses the
night sky in his silver chariot
is depicted in India
during Ratha-utsava.
It's the Festival
of the Chariot.
And it takes place around the
winter solstice, whereupon
this chariot is seen moving
across the sky in the form
of Orion, who's depicted
in physical form
as the cosmic dancer
Shiva Nataraja Murti.
And both Shiva and Osiris
share near-identical
attributes, especially
as antediluvian gods
who symbolize the cycle
of birth, growth, death,
and rebirth, the
ultimate cosmic dance.
[BELLS AND DRUMS]
And just as Giza is the
earthly domain of Osiris,
with its entrance
protected by the Sphinx,
so of temple most associated
with Shiva in India,
which is Nataraja, is guarded
at both entrances by a sphinx.
And just as in Egypt,
Nataraja Temple
is said to have been originally
built in prehistoric times.
And there are more parallels
between these two cultures.
The gods, who brought the
civilizing arts to humanity
always appeared in
groups of seven sages,
led by an eighth, a
charismatic leader.
And in India, they
were the seven Rishi.
They were sages, masters
of specialized knowledge
from medicine, letters,
architecture, and astronomy,
and so forth.
And central to their
story is Orion, the master
of created things, suggesting
the constellation is
the very source of
life and knowledge.
And the same concept
is common to the gods
of the Yucatan, the Andes,
the Pacific, and Mesopotamia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One Indian sage was
called Vishvamitra,
and one of his greatest
exploits was transferring
a king in physical
form to the sky
to, quote, "where he is now
shining as the constellation
Orion."
That's not a far cry from
the journey undertaken
by Osiris and all of those
who follow in his footsteps
to become living gods.
Such stories, dating back
to prehistoric times,
appear throughout the
Indian subcontinent.
There exist accounts of
half-human, half-divine people
performing extraordinary
deeds for the benefit
of ordinary people.
And for those who
followed the advice
and elevated
themselves spiritually,
the gods would offer
them access to Orion
while they were still alive.
So clearly, this implies
a physical connection
existed between our two worlds.
Sacred text such as the
Puranas and the Mahabharata
suggest this when they
make startling claims
that the gods assumed human form
when a situation demanded it,
such as a global
cataclysm or the necessity
for mass social reform
due to the degeneracy
of the human race.
So it would be an
aberration were it
not for the fact that Aboriginal
tribes of Northern Australia
agree with this statement.
And their oral traditions
identify a group of helpful
gods called the [NON-ENGLISH],,
which means watchers,
who are said to have appeared
from the direction of Orion
prior to the Great Flood.
And these watchers were capable
of taking on physical form
when a situation demanded it.
And they possessed
physical characteristics
similar to humans.
And according to another
Aboriginal tribe, the Wurrong,
such celestial
beings were lawgivers
whose physical
representations are
seen in the constellations
and stars of Pleiades, Taurus,
and of course, Orion.
Earlier, we saw how in Tonga,
Orion is called Tolowa.
The name migrated
to Central America,
where this homeland of
the gods is called Tollan.
And in both cases, it means the
same thing, the place of reeds.
Now, it's funny how
this idea of being
able to access Orion via
a reed is a concept also
common to India, to Persia,
to Egypt, even the traditions
of the Hopi.
The foundation of Maya
cosmology is established
on a triangle of stars
that makes up Orion,
and that is Saiph, Alnitak, and
the great blue giant, Rigel.
And directly in the center
of this equilateral triangle
is nebula M42.
And the Maya called it,
K'ak', the flame of creation.
And they refer to it as
the heart of the sky.
Now, the name incorporates
the Egyptian word for shining,
ak, as in action
Aku Shemsu Hora,
the name of the Egyptian gods.
The Maya look upon
Orion as a first father.
They call it Hun Hunahpu, a
progenitor of their culture.
And consequently, Orion is seen
as the hearth of the universe.
And they memorialize the
importance of this relationship
by placing three stones at
the center of their temples.
And the understanding is
so integral to Maya belief
that even traditional
houses feature
a hearth made of three stones.
Just as in Egypt, the arrival
of the gods in Central America
presages the establishment
of civilization
and the moral codes
that came with it.
And the event was commemorated
by the building of Teotihuac치n.
Three enormous pyramids form
the hearth of this temple city,
and together they mirror
the belt stars of Orion.
And the entire
complex is connected
by a reed, a long avenue
called the Path of the Soul.
And just like the association
between Giza and Osiris,
Teotihuac치n is said to
be the principal domain
of Quetzalcoatl.
And together with his
group of seven sages,
they came to be known
as the Red Ant People
for practical as well
as symbolic reasons.
Like other gods
encountered so far,
they were described
as red or fair haired.
But the more apparent
connection to red ants
is because they labored to
create order out of the chaos
that they found after the flood,
qualities similarly observed
in industrious red ants.
And for the symbolic
association,
the tripartite body of the
ants represents the three stars
of Orion's Belt.
[ETHEREAL MUSIC]
Given how many
cultures view Orion
as the origin of the gods or a
gateway into their knowledge,
it is beyond reasonable doubt
that these stories are not
symbolic gestures but
culturally shared experiences.
But where do these
associations begin?
The answer lies in the origin
of the name Orion itself.
Orion actually derives from
a later Greek word, oarion,
and it means boundary.
And it suggests that the
constellation marks some kind
of frontier into another realm.
And the Greeks
transliterated oarion
from the name of a
great pre-flood sage
by the name Ouranos.
It is quite possibly the oldest
surviving linguistic root.
As for Ouranos, the sage, his
name means red man of Anu,
and he held the title
Light of Heaven.
So Ouranos himself
belonged to one
of the oldest and best-known
groups of gods, the Anunnaki
But there's more to this story.
The offspring of the
Anunnaki are this tribe--
there's an old Hebrew, as
nemela, meaning ant or ant
people.
And as for the
craftsmen who worked
alongside the
Anunnaki, the Watchers,
they are described
as shining ones
on account of two
observations, one, from the oil
that they rub on their
skin, which gave it
a shining appearance,
and because they were
highly educated people,
they were also illuminated,
figuratively speaking.
And the offspring
of the Watchers
were called nephila, which
means children or Orion.
These identical connections
are found on the opposite side
of the world in Arizona.
Like the Waitaha of
New Zealand, the Hopi
view Orion as a house of wisdom.
And every November during
the Hawk, or initiates moon,
members of the Hopi
Kiva, conduct a ceremony
marking the beginning
of the ceremonial year,
during which an elder
conveys the emergence legend.
And during the time
of the Great Flood,
an emissary kachina
by the name Massau
assisted the ancestors
of the Hopi navigate
from a sunken homeland
in the Pacific
and towards what
is today Arizona.
And the ceremony begins the
moment that the Belt of Orion
appears above the Kiva.
The central location where
this teaching takes place
is in the village of Walpi,
one of the three Hopi mesas
that bear a strong resemblance
to the belt stars of Orion.
Now, Walpi actually
means the place
of the watchers, whom
the Hopi look upon
as the original protectors.
The ancestors of the Hopi
were the Hisatsinom, later
known as Anasazi.
And it was they who originally
adopted Orion as a talisman
to remind the people of the
origin of the kachina in charge
of their safety, a godman
by the name of Anu Sinom.
So he was known as a
looker, a watcher, leader
of the ant people.
In tribal tradition,
this unusual humanoid
is described as
generous and hard
working, willing to
provide food to the people
and teach the methods
of food preparation
so they could ride out the
prolonged upheaval taking place
outside their protective cave
during the great catastrophe
that befell the Earth.
And here is where we find
a link to the Middle East,
because the Hopi
word for ant, anu,
forms part of the
phrase anu naki,
and it literally
means and father whom.
So Anu Sinom, this
ant person, is
associated with
the point of origin
of the Hopi and their ancestors.
But there's another kachina
involved in this Hopi legend
and that is Sohu.
He's a godman who
acted as intermediary
between Orion and Earth.
And he is depicted with
three stars above his head,
each representing
the Belt of Orion.
The odd thing is,
Sohu is practically
identical to the Egyptian
word for Orion, sahu,
when in ancient China
it is shen, which
the Chinese depicted as an
ideogram in the form of a head
topped with three stars.
There is yet another overlap.
This time, it's the
tradition of the Maya.
As we saw earlier, the point
of origin in Maya cosmology
is the M42 nebula that resides
in Orion, to which they
refer to as heart of the sky.
Now oddly enough, it is
the title given by the Hopi
to their creator god, Sotuknang.
Far from being allegorical
tales or metaphors,
these accounts from
around the world
indicate how a
physical link once
existed between the
terrestrial world and Orion,
with the belt stars
serving as a kind of portal
into the domain of the gods.
Because if lucky humans were
allowed to visit this abode
and return to tell the
tale, obviously there
must have been an observable
and physical connection
between these two worlds.
So what happened?
Is this connection is
still in existence?
There are several
existing tribal accounts
around the world that tell
of the energy associated
with Orion having been abused
and misused a long time ago,
among gods and humans
alike, by the way.
And this led to the
good gods to shut down
many of the temples associated
with this constellation.
And it may explain why no one
during the time of Pharaohs
Khafre and Khufu, to whom the
Giza pyramids are attributed
by academia, knew where the
entrance to the Great Pyramid
was located.
And that was four and
1/2 thousand years ago.
So there is a hint
to what happened,
and it is found
in the flood lift
from the region of Vietnam.
And it goes
something like this--
back in the days when celestial
beings and humans could travel
back and forth to
visit one another,
when people lived for
hundreds of years,
and the region was
named in [NON-ENGLISH],,
there lived three lords, earthly
representatives of a celestial
being named Thun.
And all that Thun
required was for people
to honor him at meal times
and follow the rules set down
for good conduct.
But gradually, the free lords
neglected this simple courtesy.
They fell out of favor
with the heavens.
And a great flood wiped out
everyone and everything,
except the free lords,
who built a raft
and took aboard their
wives and children.
And they met Thun in the
sky and reassured him
that they had learned
from their error,
and from now on, they
would be more respectful.
So Thun agreed and
sent down a messenger
to teach people all the
craft necessary upon which
to rebuild a civil society.
But soon, the Earth
became overpopulated
and the three lords took
to regular intoxication.
So this time, Thun
recalled the lords
and replaced them with
his messenger, Kun Balun,
and seven sages.
And when he was convinced
that the people could
look after themselves
once again, he
had the Bridge to Heaven
collapsed so that humans
could no longer visit.
Well, the point is this--
long ago, humans
established a relationship
with the gods who, on
occasion, allowed an individual
into their world so
that this person could
share a favorable
impression with their peers
upon returning.
This educational plan
ran in combination
with the careful
seeding of knowledge
around the world by
the gods themselves,
in what seems to have been a
carefully orchestrated plan
to assist hunter
gatherers gradually evolve
towards a more civilized state.
And too many traditions
describe this interaction
involving the Watchers,
the Shining Ones,
and others of their ilk,
for this to be mere hearsay
or fabrication.
And once the seeds of
civilization had taken root,
these unusual
people disappeared,
never to be seen again in
physical form or thereafter
appearing only sporadically.
You know, looking at the
myriad of ancient cultures
and their stories, it
seems that as a species
we ultimately became reliant
on outside assistance,
perhaps to the
point of dependency,
especially after each
overturning of the world.
So the question is this--
what if the lesson to be
learned from this encounter
is for humans to discover the
creative spark of divinity
within themselves?
Perhaps the gods of Orion
were offering us a challenge.
They're to be like us or better.
[MUSIC PLAYING]